# Transcript: Charlotte Johnson

**Video ID:** Z5mwjeM4YZA
**Source URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z5mwjeM4YZA

---

### Content

Welcome to today's webinar session on how to write cold emails that actually get replies. And as we can see on the chat, we don't need to tell you guys that cold emails are tricky right now. Um, let me break down the actual numbers for this year 2025. The average cold email reply rate is 4%. Some are saying less and average about 4%. um our inboxes, they're overloaded and everyone's getting pitched at the same time and nothing's really cutting through the noise. But here's the thing, and it's really important. It's not that cold emails don't work anymore. It's that bad cold emails don't work anymore. And the generic intros and recycled templates, that email of, "Hey, just checking in to see how it's going over at company ABC." The buyers see right through that stuff and they just hit delete. So question is how is anyone still seeing results? So those who have adopted and are cutting through they are sending fewer emails but better emails and and Charlie will will point this out in a moment but when you put in the work up front your messages are going to land you know right when they matter and that's exactly what we're going to talk about today. So reaching out to a prospect is an art and we cannot you know only rely on AI to do it for us. we need to kind of use it in context, use it smartly, uh, and let it, you know, resonate within our prospects and get their attention. So, um, my name is Tall from the customer success team here at Lucia and the host for today. With me, we have Charlie Johnson from, uh, from Salesoft. She's crushed 150% of quota. She's deeply knowledgeable about how to shape up a cold email. Now, she's also teaming up with Lucia and 30 MPC, which is 30 minutes to President's Club, to share the exact playbook she uses to stand out. >> Yeah, thank you. I'm looking forward to this guys as well. If you guys follow me on LinkedIn, I'm obsessed with email best practices. So, yeah, really looking forward to this one. >> Oh, we we met uh you know, we started meeting up about a week ago, week and a half ago, and I saw a lot of information. So, I'm really excited even for myself, although customer success, but I used to be in sales and you know, sales is everything, right? Everything's around sales today, even if you're not in sales. Anyways, uh but yeah, we'll have a lot of stuff to talk about today. And here's what we're going to cover basically. So, we're going to walk you through uh how to prep in less time and stay focused on the right people. Uh how to find the the right format that gets those open, read, and replied emails. We will also see how to use the um how hard to use the content that can be repeated without sounding like a robot which is of course you know kind of be super non personal using those templates or random templates. Uh staying top of mind while using high converting Luca signals and this is also important. We spoke about this, Charlie. Um, basically re-engaging with Oh, sorry. Let me just change the slide. Uh, re-engaging with past prospects who didn't actually buy from you uh when you guys last spoke, but you know, when you keep on checking in, they will remember your solution when the time comes and they want to revisit uh, you know, the same kind of services. And by the way, we also spoke about this. This is free data that's sitting in your CRM and it's really, really important. And last but not least, um, how to use AI to test, improve, and scale the outreach without losing that human touch. So, you know, whatever your role is as part of the the go-to market team, there's a takeaway in here for you. So, the market has changed and outbound has changed. And for that reason, we have Charlie today. Looking forward, Charlie, to hearing from you about how you shape your day and your outbound motion. I'm going to stop my screen sharing and then hand it over to you to share. >> Sounds good. >> And just one more thing for those who are raising the hands Q&A se uh section uh on Zoom feel free to drop in questions. >> I wanted to just like stay on this slide for a little bit. Just checking how to you can see the right. >> Yeah, I can see it. And just to make sure also let's ask cuz last time we had a little issue there. guys in the chat, uh, please feel free to let us know. Are you seeing the slide that says the market has changed? >> Good. >> Awesome. Perfect. Thanks, guys. >> I'm a pro. Um, the market really has changed. You know, you see this a lot out there. The outbounds changed, prospecting changed, but it has massively. And it's not just the fact that us as sellers have actually got a lot better at our emails. If you look at email best practices from a couple of years ago versus now, the quality is a lot better. um that plus AI drowning people's inboxes. But the most important one is that companies just don't have additional budget to spend on nice to have tools. So in order for us to not only book meetings and convert uh people into closed one revenue, we need to be either solving a challenge which is stopping them from achieving their goals or aligning to an executive level or company aligned initiative. This wasn't the case before. I could spend most of my time on tier one accounts, create an ROI about a nice to have and that you could increase revenue by this amount and it would be fine. Whereas in this market, if I go to a company who is um focused on profitability and reducing headcount and making their team more effective, if I'm like, "Oh, you can make more revenue." They're going to be like, "This isn't something we're focused in. It's not aligned with a specific initiative." So, this has changed. And with this changing, how we approach our outbound has to change as well. And talking about time management and how to segment accounts, I always thought was a little bit of a a dollar type topic, but moving into today's industry, like it's probably one of the most important parts that you need to nail in order to increase your response rates. I saw people talking about like they have 61 75% open rate, but only 1% reply rate. This might not be because your emails are bad. This could be because you're reaching out to the wrong person at the wrong time. Someone reaches out to me with something that's irrelevant, I'm probably not going to reply, right? So, it's how we're spending our time effectively on the accounts that actually matter. And you guys have probably heard of different tiered accounts, tier ones, tier 2s, tier threes. Um, and as I mentioned before previously, I'd spend a crazy amount of my time on tier ones, maybe like 90% of my time on tier ones because I could prove an ROI and I could convert that into a meeting and close on revenue. These are big juicy accounts that are going to help me hit my quarter. Um, but they have longer sales cycle and they're way harder to book, but also from an A perspective, they're way harder to convert into a close one opportunity. So, I'm only now spending maybe 30% of my time on these tier one accounts. Um my research is quite time consuming. They are a tier one account. Um and it's super personalized not just on the individual level but the business initiative level. I can't just say hey you moved into a new role and I get I guess this is your focus. It needs to align with something on their annual report something they've posted about in their investors report whatever it might be needs to be really high up. So naturally it's quite time consuming. And when I say research time, I mean per accounts and contacts, not 30 minutes per contact. Tier two, good fit. Um, they're the run rate in my um in my AE pipeline, right? I'm going to spend maybe 20% of my time prospecting and 10 minutes researching. I'm going to use uh trigger personalization, semi-personalization, and within Lucio, you can get a ton of these signals kind of fed to you around what's going on within that company. Tier three, don't really spend a huge amount of time on these guys. 5% 2 minutes research. They might be a potential bad fit. So, I don't want to waste too much energy on them. And where I'm seeing most of my time spent in today's market is these signals. And for those who don't know what a signal is, a signal is essentially um an account or contact who's more likely to reply based on certain things with what's happening within that company. Maybe they've hired new leadership like a new CRO or a new VP of engineering. Maybe they've just had funding and it mentions something specific. All these kind of things. Maybe they're um used to be a champion customer and they've moved to a new prospect company. All these things that are shouting at me like I'm not just more likely to reply. I'm more likely to purchase your solution. That's a signal. And although this says 45% of my time, um I'm probably going to see that increasing and increasing as time goes on. And I'm seeing a lot of companies spend way more time on signals rather than focusing on tier one, two, and threes. What's great about this, and then this is probably most of my pipeline at the moment as well, my research time is a lot less because that signal that's getting fed to me through Lucia as an example, that's what I'm going to personalize my email with. So I don't need to spend a crazy amount of time on personalization. Treat them like inbound. Um and again I mentioned signal based personalization. Would like to know from the chat how many people are tiering their accounts effectively. Me didn't know about taring. >> Never thought about it. Yeah. Okay. >> Yeah. Because I used to tear my accounts. Did I do it well with good research? Why I'm reaching out to them? how I should be approaching them, mapping out the stakeholders within the account. Definitely didn't do it properly before. I used to always tear, but I didn't do it well. So, a lot of people saying they've never heard of tearing. This is how you should be prioritizing your time. Um, and taking it a step further. I actually have, can you see it? A little timer. Like, I take this stuff seriously. If I'm spending 30 minutes on researching, I'm not going a second over that 30 minutes for that account. So, my timer is going to go off when I need to stop and move on to my next task. Our time is our greatest asset. So you cannot be wasting time and all your energy on tier one accounts that are less likely to convert. So these are kind of the main places that we're going to kind of research dayto-day. Um I'll let TA talk a bit more about the the Lucia signals shortly, but we're also going to places like LinkedIn, hiring trends, team maturity. We're looking at their website, things like product launches, case studies, target markets, CRM, past opportunities is probably one of my favorite parts within your CRM data. If you guys aren't creating close lost um lists within your CRM and using Lucia engage and templates within Lucia to reach out to them at scale, then you are missing out. I guarantee if you've not done this, there is easily about 5 to 10 meetings in your CRM just from using this. So create a Lucia engage sequence with um and we'll go into some of the examples later but this is a huge one that you can do it and then Google funding exec interviews press releases. Am I going to do this level of research for a tier two and a tier three? Probably not. Um I'm going to be doing higher up initiatives when I get to those like higher tier ones and things like that. Cool. So spoken about some of the time consuming. I'm just going to go back to this one. We've spoken about like this can be quite timeconuming. Um and I want to show an example of how I would research a tier one account. Now you guys probably don't want to sit there for 30 minutes watching me uh live research a tier one account. So I'm going to I'm going to crop it down to maybe a minute or so as to how I targeted and got into one of my tier one accounts. So, and probably the cutest logo, by the way, um is how I initially found this account, but for me working at Salesoft, this is a tier one account that I'm going to be going after. They have perfect fit tech stack. They have perfect fit um team size. Um and it's just a really good one for me to go after. They had no signals related to it. I'm still going to go after this account because if I convert them, I'm going to hit my quarter target, which is kind of a big thing, you know. So, when I go into it, I'm going to quickly go into looking at initiatives, company level initiatives. I'm looking at the financial health report. And what I'm going to do from here, because in reality, I'm not going to read all this. I'm going to control find and I'm going to do areas that I know are important or trends within companies I know are important for them to want to buy our solution. You can get all this information from any inbounds you're getting. You'll probably see a trend amongst like why they're coming inbound. Um but also with within your closed one opportunities, you should be kind of um checking these out and monitoring them to make sure we can understand like what are the top companies that are converting into close one revenue. Are they certain industry? Um are they a certain size? Is there a certain topic? And one for us is profitability. a huge um signal for us to understand if a company is a good firm. So I can see that they're on this path to profitability which is great and it mentions it multiple times within this um annual report. I'm also going onto their careers page to understand where they're investing headcount. There is a crazy amount of um revenue teams. Everything from pipeline gen individuals to account executives and most interestingly a founding account executive. So they're expanding into Canada. So from this so far I know that they're focused on profitability. They're hiring like crazy. They've expanded into a new market. Um and when I find out this information I go in and find, okay, great. They are doing this expansion and it's going to tell me lots of juicy information about that here from me. I'm also going to go on to their website, understand who they're selling to, what they sell. Um, and you can kind of see how much of a a process this is. You how much time and energy. But something I also found out from this account on top of all that time consuming kind of research that I've just done, guys, this has taken me a long time. Um, on top of all of this, I found out from a colleague that she was connected to a lot of the team who are within this company. So, I ask how she knows them, who I should be reaching out to, and I find out who the right person is to reach out to. I then do my multi- channelannel approach within Lucer Engage to understand, okay, this person, let's try and get them to respond. and I eventually get a respond to this person and find out who the actual right person is for me to going after. Like this is over the course of like over a week by the way. Like it's taken me a while to get this response from Corali to reach out to Gazi and understand exactly who I should be going after and then also getting an idea of where exactly I need to be focusing my attention in that email. The most perfect um situation would be that Clemon replies to me straight away. There's another two weeks of grind reaching out to this account and getting nothing. And I'm just going to pause there. Um we're going to show you what the email looks like after all of that research. Um putting a bow on it and what it looks like. We're going to show you what that what that research and that email personalization looked like. They did book the meeting with Clement, but to give you insight into the unfortunate end of the story, it wasn't an opportunity because it was just bad timing because they've renewed with a competitor. Guys, the amount of energy, research, personalization I put into this account to then get, oh, we've renewed for another three years. It's like slightly heartbreaking. Which going back to this point here is why I don't spend 100% of my time going into tier one accounts. I need to be encouraging my focus here. And we're going to show you what that um what that email looks like after we've gone through some of the email structures. But I'm just going to hand over to TA to show you how we can be better utilizing signals within Lucia. So you're not having a situation where you're me and you're going after an account that although is a great fit on paper but actually doesn't have any signals that are helping me to um convert them into a close one opportunity. >> 100% Charlie those are actually amazing examples some that I have never even thought about as part of the sales team. Some that I have utilized maybe not at that level especally the closed lost ones. um you know we did this is years ago 6 years ago maybe it wasn't even an idea back then but it was you know in our brains and we didn't really emphasize on it and I think it's also important but yeah great examples is it's good to really understand um you know who to engage with and how to engage with them so I'm going to go and share uh where we are at today and what we can do to remove all that manual work or you know at least help us out and allow Luca to take a lot of that work out of our hands and you know feed us with the next uh best kind of matches So in this area like meet the new home uh playlist catalog which is um more of a Spotify kind of uh area but just built for pipeline right so this is also our new recommendations area and based off of your top wins your lookalikes your buyer intent job change signals this is where you come to go and build your next pipeline let's take a look at the dashboard for a quick minute and I'll just show you how AI steps into play in the game so on the main dashboard just seeing in my dashboard. Okay, perfect. So, right over here, the new homepage, thanks guys in the chat. Um, not visible for you guys yet, but will be released shortly is an air recommendations based off of signals or or you know, at least uh your systems or your searches. So it's just part of what uh it's going to be released but at the moment first step is going to be contacts based off of your CRM and companies based off of your CRM and also similar to the context you have revealed and similar to the companies that you revealed. On top of that, we like I said before, we'll be adding uh the intent signals and job changes and growth for companies. But this is the area where you go and just let Luca to kick off that motion of you know outbound and really >> increase a a little bit your screen. >> Um one second. >> Zoom in. >> If not, you should all be able to do this as well. I've gone over it and I've zoomed in as well. >> Here on this side like that. Is that better? You guys seeing that? >> Yeah. >> Okay, perfect. Yeah. So, yeah, contacts based on your CRM, based off of your company's contacts and similar to the contacts that you've revealed. Um, I just want to show you over here. So, when you click on view all contacts or view all companies right over there, it will take you to the recommendations tab. Those who have been, you know, using Lucia for a while now, there was a recommendations tab here before, but it's the same kind of layout. you have the contacts that were raised by Lucia, possibly a good match for you to connect with. Um, do utilize these searches because it does make sense for you to engage with them for multiple reasons. And you have the contact details on the right side. Go and reveal the details. Go and push them over into your list on the bottom of the page. You can go and populate more contacts, more companies. Again, depends on what kind of uh option you have clicked into, but again, a lot more coming into the near future. And uh and by the way, just an FYI, you guys can sign up for Luca for free and just get a taste of all this uh juicy stuff that will, you know, kickstart your your pipeline. Um so yeah, that's a little bit about where we are at today and I'll hand it over back to you Charlie uh to just you know take us down the road of how you do your uh app motions. I'll stop sharing. If I was everyone on this webinar right now, I would be getting a free trial, creating some kind of um engage sequence for closed lost opportunities, which I'll show you. And if you have access to AI recommendations, being able to go after those contacts that are most likely to respond to you, is literally where the market is going. No longer do we have this massive list of endless companies that we just randomly reach out to. I saw someone saying they reach out to 600 people or something like that. It's not the way that the market is going anymore. We need to be way more tailored with our approach, who we're reaching out to, which company we're reaching out to, and why. And using those signals from Lucra is literally the way that you're going to be able to do this easily and not have to put as much blood, sweat, and tears into the prospecting process. Because if you're not doing this, I guarantee you're spending a crazy amount of time and energy and you're probably not getting um like amazing results um from the energy you're putting into it. >> Do you also call it a spray and pray? >> Yeah, exactly. Yeah, spray and pray. Like it used to be fine. And you know what? If you reach out to a thousand people, you might get one response, but the response isn't going to be from a good fit buyer. It's not having that end goal of close wanting in in in mind. And in in the interim of you spamming out all this stuff, you're hurting your deliverability as well. So you need to be way smarter about um quality versus quantity. And fortunately, you have fortunately um you have access to tools that are just going to give you this information and how to actually personalize as well. So uh yeah, it's so useful. I wish I had this when I was first. Um >> yeah, this is six years ago at Luca. We didn't have this. This is all new stuff. It was basically uh six and a half years ago a small little you know extension on LinkedIn but nothing more than that hardly even a dashboard. >> Yeah, it's where most companies I'm speaking to are focusing in their outbound efforts signals um and yeah being smart with how we personalize at scale. Right, we're going to go into some uh email structures. Um I'm obsessed with this topic by the way. Um so I'll try not to talk too much. Um, but the the point is, and we spoke about this at the beginning, is AI has taken over also with this, and you guys will probably notice it in yourself. I notice it in myself massively. It makes me cringe a little bit, is how we as sales people speak verbally, but also how we speak in email all sounds exactly the same. We've all adopted the same sales structure, sales templates, sales jargon, language, which unfortunately means that our emails all sound the same. We have the same subject lines like quick question, um add in the company name into your subject line, uh saying five minutes to chat, supercharge your pipeline, all of these ones that are super salesy which our prospects are becoming numb towards. Um so we need to be changing the way that we're thinking about emails um in order for us not to only get o opens to also get clicks and replies. You guys probably know the formula of what an email um yeah, I'm just looking in in the chat. This one, first name and the little diamond and prospect's name is probably the most common subject line that I see. Um so I would really encourage to move away from ones where it mentions your name, your company name, their name, their company name, and have it focused on uh something that's personalized to them. either a signal so hiring a first rep in Canada for the example with Alan um not something that's going to be um as kind of salesy I think I remember using that one when when I was first in SDR so we need to be constantly thinking about how we can evolve this but we all know what this process looks like we have the hook and and let me make this clear something only they would get if your hook is sending to absolutely anyone marketing as an example it's just hey SEO marketing or hey, I see you're in this industry. It's not a hook. That's part of spray and prey. So, here's an example that you could see that it's only relevant to that person. Probably relevant to a few other people as a hint, but it's specific enough that it's only relevant to them. Um, but it's also possible to scale problem. This problem needs to link to this hook. You can't say, "Charlie, you have the cutest dog in the world called Mila," which I know. Um, and then say, "I bet you have this challenge with your day-to-day job." Because it doesn't link. So, it needs to make sure that the hook links to the problem, as an example, and then a call to action. And I put low pressure call to action and next step because in today's market when time is our biggest asset, uh, we can no longer um, as easily get people to commit to time. So, what I focus on is getting a commit to a reply rather than time. So, I'll do as an example worth exchanging a few messages to learn more. Or do you want me to show you uh a quick um 30 second video of how this might help? This has changed a lot over time as well. It used to be, do you want to spend time next Tuesday at 300 p.m. for a free demo? Um yeah, seeing a few worth a chat, open to a conversation. Um are all like good examples of kind of low friction call to uh call to actions. Um, but worth a chat is actually encouraging a meeting rather than a reply. So, I'm trying to encourage a reply over a conversation. I saw somewhere in the chat at the beginning when I was blasted with about a million comments about what you guys want to get out of this call. I saw somewhere briefly someone asking about it from our prospect's perspective. And this is exactly what this is going after. So, when our prospect looks at our email, what are they thinking? So when we go back to that screen of what it looked like from someone's inbox, they are asking, "Is this interesting?" And that's the subject line and that hook part of the email. And depending on how long your subject line is, you haven't got that many characters in your inbox page to grab someone's attention and get them to open that email. The next part is problem and solution. Should I pay attention and read more? Someone said that they get a lot of um opens but they don't get clicks or replies. And that's often because we might have done enough and see it as like different levels within a game. I can't think of a game, a Mario game. Think of it as different levels. We get past level one, which is opening it and them thinking this is interesting. Level two is that problem and solution resonating. If it doesn't resonate, they're going to click that delete button. And then should I reply is that call to action. That's level three. and then you've won the game. Not quite yet, actually. You need to get to level 100, which is your closed one opportunity. Um, but so these three things our prospects are thinking about when they're reading our emails. Um, and whenever I'm reading an email, I'm always thinking to myself these three things. If I was in their shoes, would I find it interesting? Should I pay attention? And should I reply? Ask yourself this before you're sending an email. And if your answer is no to any of them, don't send the email. So, let's go into this. what it looks like in the structure. And of course, I'm going to use my dog um as an example, non- salesreated, just to give you some insight. So, when we say, "Is this interesting?" The subject line is my dog's name. So, to me, that's very interesting. And um they've read about Mila turning four this year, which yeah, is really interesting to me because she's my child. Then the next bit, should I pay attention? Which is our problem and solution. Often cockapoos can start to get dental issues as they get to this stage. How are you keeping her teeth clean without the wrestling match every week? Over 10,000 dog owners use our dental chews to reduce plaque without the fuss. Just toss one in after dinner and let your dog do the work. If anyone has a dog, I think maybe 1% of dog owners brush their teeth. I've tried it. Those little finger things in her mouth and it's just she just eats the toothpaste. She doesn't really get into her talks and kids. Get one of these for your kids as well. I don't recommend. Okay, someone's the 1% which is great for you, but 99% of people don't brush their dog's teeth. I've tried and I can't do it. Um, think this could save a few battles. I'd probably edit this further and be like, um, here's a link if you want to check out the reviews. So, they can go directly to that link and look at the reviews. Is this interesting? Yes. Should I pay attention? Oh my goodness. Yes. I need to sort her teeth out. My vets's always like, "You need to brush her teeth." I'm like, "Yeah, I know. I need to. Should I reply? Yes. Um, when writing this example, it was so impactful to me that I actually went online and I bought some dental sticks and some powder that I can put into her food to help them reply. It's a personal business objective for me, a company initiative within Charlie's household to get a dog's teeth clean. Um, so it's a good example of um, yeah, what it looks like for a good email. And those people who have a dog at a certain age, I guarantee you've at some point in your life thought about this dog uh cleaning experience as well. Uh stalker. Yeah, like it's an example like no one can actually find out that my dog is four years old. It was just an example to show you for for the sake of this webinar. Right, let's take a step back. Right, we've just learned how to write an email structure. We can also now know the research that we did for that company Allen with the really cute polar bear. Um, and now we're going to show you what that email looked like in practice. So, let's go back to is this interesting? Should I pay attention? And should I respond? So, if you remember from the research, is this interesting? We spoke to a colleague about who to reach out to. So, Gazi mentioned, and my subject line would probably be his name as well, speaking to Gazi, something like that. is directly relevant to Clemon um and is something that's completely responsible to just him. So Gazi mentioned you've recently taken over outreach responsibilities. Clemon, I put the name at the end of the sentence because we've only got that certain amount of time to capture someone's attention, which is why I often put the first name at the end so I don't waste that space. Is this interesting? Yes, because I've spoken to their colleague. Okay. I'm also doing some more personalization because they're a tier one account. So saw Allen's plans to grow revenue while hiring less to support profitility profitability goals heading into 2026. That financial report is where I read this. With a leaner team covering more grounds, how are you avoiding wasted effort on accounts that look good on PE on paper but actually aren't ready to buy? All of that signal stuff we're talking about. Um, should I pay attention? Yes, because they're probably thinking about this. how we use AI to do all this lovely stuff. And bear in mind, what I put from AI is based on what his colleague has said to me. So, this isn't just a random pitch. This pitch is based exactly on what his colleague has said that Clemont is interested in. We're swapping a couple of messages to explore. We swapped a couple of messages. We jumped on a call. Um, booked the meeting. Great. Bad fit. Really long really wrong long renewal contract with um their competitor. Someone said, "Why not put hi Clelemont?" As we mentioned before, you've only got a certain amount of characters within that subject line and that hook for someone to open your email. If your subject line is speaking with Clement and then I sorry, speaking with Garazy and then I say, "Hey, Clemont, um, Gari mentioned blah blah blah, it might not be enough to convert that people." My subject line would be spoke to Gazi. Cool. this isn't scalable to everyone. There's no way I could hit target and have enough pipeline um if I was to do that every single day. Which is why we need to be thinking about um scalable templates. And Tal, I don't know if you wanted to touch on this one if you want me to take it. >> Yeah, you're good. Go ahead. >> Cool. Um because when we're thinking about things like this, and I kind of hinted at it um here, when we're thinking about this, this is specific enough and personalized that it can only be to that person, but fortunately, it's scalable to every single person who is hiring AE focused on self-sourcing pipeline. So that is every single person hiring AE. Every single A job spec will talk about selfsourcing pipeline because it's such a big focus at the moment. So, what you're going to do is in Lucia, you can start to create scaled templates. So, you're still reaching out to your tier ones, your tier twos, your tier 3es, and your signals, but you have a bank of templates to scale them to. Um, and what you're going to do is when you're doing your personalization, write down the common topics of personalization that you're using. And these scaled templates need to be specific enough that it can only be for that person or company, but generic enough that it can be scaled. So if it's saying I see your this title in this company is too generic, you need to go that one step further. So examples are new product launches and you can read an example here. Next one hiring a specific role but not just the fact that I see you're hiring making sure that you're explaining what it mentions and something that is specifically relevant to them. And then finally team maturity and structure. So we can see that a team looks quite tenured. the challenges attached and a call to action. There is no way that I can reach out to signals tier ones, tier twos, tier threes without these scaled templates. Especially when you're reaching out to tier ones, although it's not a crazy amount of my time, 30% of my time is still a lot of energy. So, I need to make sure that when I get past that first few steps of personalization that I have enough ammo in my template library to scale messaging to other people as well. Is anyone using scaled templates at the moment out of interest? No. No. Yes. Yeah. Don't do this alone, by the way. Go to your team. Do this with your team as well. You don't have to do all of this alone. Go to your team and be like, "Let's talk." Drop down the top personalization topics we're doing and let's create templates from them. But luckily for us, whoops, we can use them in Lucia's template bank. So then you don't have to copy and paste and you can just start doing this at scale. So you're going to have those closed, lost, engaged sequences and you're going to have a bank of templates to scale to people as well. >> All right, perfect. Sorry, I forgot myself on mute. Um, cool, Charlie. Okay, so that was a lot of information. Super super important. I would advise I'm gonna go ahead back and listen to this again because even though I'm not part of customer success, this is really really important. I'm not part of sales anymore. I'm part of customer success today, it still makes sense to understand how you know the my end users eventually are prospecting and it's although I'm not doing it actively, I should know this more in details. So 100% I'm going to go back to it. And we spoke about um you know how to stand out, how to work smarter, uh less work involved, tailor messages. Let's jump into the platform and talk about some templates that we can use and engage. And by the way, you can gain access to this feature. You know, just go sign up to Lucia right now. It's free, no charge. There's a trial, a trial inside there. And again, it's open up for everyone. So, go take a look and test it out. I am now in the main dashboard of Luca. Charlie, you're seeing on screen. >> Okay. So, now I'm going to go over to the engage area. And here you can see all the sequences that I created. I'll go back to this in a moment. This is where I actually segmented the audience and in a way uh quote unquote because it's not exactly but it's a one-sizefits all at some level. Um I'm going to go over here to the new sequences just show you this three methods to go and create templates using AI assistant using Lucia's email templates and creating from scratch. Creating from scratch of course uh no need to talk about that. Let's go over the email templates for a quick moment. And I'm just going to show you that there are a few templates that you can choose from. If you're not familiar with the engage platform and sequencing and how it works, I basically take a uh template that's built by Luca. We'll talk about AI as well in a moment, but there's already a pre-built sequence that has four automated emails inside that runs over 11 days. You have email one with the subject and you can go uh and you know adjust the uh the text itself, the email one, the email four, the email 8. Sorry. Um the days the email uh spread out out of out of four emails um and the days within. Go and customize those templates. Change the structure, change the days. You can go and click inside, use dynamic fields, add in your signature, you change the context as well. Make sure that also you're spreading out the days accordingly. So this is going to be the first email, but let's say we go over to the day four. Send this after three days from the first email. So it's a set kind of like set it and forget it in a way. put a contact or prospect inside of that sequence. Again, we'll talk about in a moment the segmentation and, you know, putting them into the relevant sequence. But here you have it and you can go and customize it and start to use it in your daily routines. I'm going to go back one second and just show you a quick moment the AI sequence. So, you have the templates that you can use. You can use the AI assistant kind of, you know, create the purpose. One second. uh the purpose uh the voice of tone uh any context you want to add inside of that feel free to go and use it and Lucia will then go and generate a couple of templates for you according to the message that you added and then from there go and fine-tune it according to your needs I'm not going to wait for this right now it's another couple a couple of seconds but the important part is here right over here >> so basically what I did is this I and we spoke about this there's intent there's job changes There's funding, there's technologies, and there's also the general kind of app. But I segmented my audience. I created four sequences that are around the reason as to why I am connecting with them. If it's intent, funding, technologies, and job changes. And in each of those emails, I am talking about, you know, I see that you guys are in the market. For example, this is a random kind of use case. Uh, congratulations on the funding. I can see that you guys are using technologies. This is relevant to them. It's not, hey, at company ABC 1 2 3 4 5 6. We've seen that. We're going away from that. So, you want to personalize your outreach. So, you can have a one-size kind of fits all in a, you know, in an area, right, around the intent or funding, like I said, but even go a little bit deeper. So, I know I said oneizefits-all, but in a way, you can go a little bit deeper and kind of like segment and have subsegmentations. So in the the the topic or the the the wording inside these emails are intent and the title itself and also in finance industries, right? So I'm talking about all those in that sequence or intent, VP and expansion. I'm going to expand my companies that I already work with that are now looking into intent or into my services as well. So they're going to want to grow um more than that intent and funding together to the rev ops team. Funding plus job change. We're congratulating them. nice milestone. There's a lot of important details inside of this and that's, you know, that's segmentation. Now, how do you, you know, go and get started from Luca? We spoke about the intent signals, the funding. You can go to the homepage recommendations based off of your searches, your CRM. Go and send them over into those sequences. Go to the search platform and go and create a search. Use a saved search. Go to subscribe to a search. Use the list that you already have. And the sweetest part, I don't know if you guys were in the previous webinar, but today's Luca's lists are become playlist. You go and activate those lists and you, you know, you add a certain kind of ICP into a list. You go and automate that list. It Lucia will grow it by itself according to the contacts that are within that list daily, weekly, add the contacts that you want, use the credits that you need, activate it. And the kicker sending it from A to Z is where I'm going to end is to send all those new contacts that Luca already populated for you all the way to the relevant engage sequence by itself. Right? So you're, you know, you're prospecting while you're sleeping and you just have to wait for the replies. So make it count, make it personalized, make it, you know, really have a kicker that is going to resonate with the with the prospect and, you know, that's basically, you know, my point of view and our point of view and how to achieve this kind of model. And again, just to say it again, uh you can go and sign up for free. You have access to this. It's part of the free trial. And um Charlie, I'll send it back to you uh to continue the end. And then we'll go into the Q&A section. >> I'm going to go over this pretty fast just because um most people need to be utilizing AI today. Um, and there's a few people, excuse me, who said in the chat like, "I can't deal with prospects who like they don't deal well with really long texts and loads of language in it. Like, what can we do?" Um, and that's not your prospects, that's humans in general. Like, we need to be decreasing not only the length of our emails, but we need to be way more targeted in what we're actually trying to sell. Um, and unfortunately for us as sales people, uh, we've adopted such jargony language and such typical salesy structures that it can be quite hard to get out of that habit. So for me to do that, I don't just utilize my brain. I also utilize things like chatbt massively where we've created this for you and you guys will get access to this as well. You might need to change a few things based on your company, based on uh the structure of emails that you like to use. But what you're going to do is you're going to read this first. Then you're going to copy and paste all of this information. You're going to put it into chat and you're going to start editing it over time based on the people that you're reaching out to. If I could show you the amount that was in this chat here, uh you'd be shocked. There's probably like thousands and thousands of email rewrites. And your first rewrite isn't going to come out perfect. You need to educate and train chatbt. And if you're slightly more advanced than just utilizing projects in chatbt, you can actually create custom chatbts that um learn your style and learn your structure based on what you're kind of sharing with it as well. Um so I do my first email and then I get chatbt to write it and then I give it feedback on the way. So it comes out with pretty good like I'm giving it feedback. I love this blah blah blah. Can you do this? So over time you're going to be educating on how to rewrite those templates for you because it's all well and good having the right people to reach out to and having um Lucia to help us reach out to those people. But if our messaging isn't sharp then it's probably not going to land. And just to show you how good it actually is for me at the moment I've done a before and after from putting this into chatbt. So, hi Charlie. Congrats on company expansion into 24 25 countries. Huge milestone. It's a bit generic, you know. It's fine. It's good personalization, but it's like huge milestone. It's like, who am I to say that, you know? Guessing with this expansion comes higher revenue targets. It's a bit generic. Of course, higher revenue targets, you know. Um, reaching out now because many teams in similar growth phases are generic again. Many teams in similar growth phases are rethinking how they scale outreach. Would you be open? I like the CTA to be honest. That's fine. So when we get chat GBT to uh rewrite this, this is what it's done based on is this interesting, should I pay attention and should I reply? Building pipeline processes for regions like Dallas and Dubai must be keeping you busy. It's taken it to that next level. Not just like, wow, congrats 25 countries. Looks like your current reps and those you're hiring are based in Europe, meaning they'll be handling international territories. Specific problem to this specific person. Yes, it is interesting. How are you ensuring your sales reps can adapt their messages across markets and execute confidently? Confidently is such a a pain word for a lot of leaders out there. Would it be worth and I haven't changed the call to action or chatb? And you can see how it's taken it to that next step level. And you can do this for your tier one emails, but you can also do it um for those scalable templates that you're going to be adding into Lucia as well. So before you add it into there, add the prompt that we're going to share with you. Um get chatbt to rewrite that template so it's a little bit sharper. Um and then um yeah, add it into your Lucia template and start scaling those messages out to your T. It's a wrap. >> All right. Uh perfect. So I guess Charlie, you can leave it on the screen right now. Thank you so much, Charlie. That was, you know, amazing. There's a lot a lot of information to go over. Um, but now we are in the Q&A. So, let's hear from everybody. We already have some questions that have been raised. I'm going to read them. Uh, and then there are a couple of requests here. So, first of all, I just want to say the prompt that Charlie shared will be sent to you guys in the follow-up email. Uh, you know, proven to work three to five meetings per week. So, we'll send that to you later on. Let me just go over the questions. What's some best practices to blur the lines between marketing and sales language in messages? >> Yeah, I think when you're using one of some things like chat GBT, um like often marketing messaging can sound like it's come from marketing. So, we actually don't want our messaging to sound like it's coming from a saleserson, coming from a marketing person, or even coming from a normal person like myself. We need to be using language that our prospects use dayto-day. That's the key. And to get that language, you can listen to inbound calls. You can read job specs. You can even interview your customer and your prospects to understand the language they use. Um, read forums online. Um, G2 kind of reviews and stuff like that. So, you can start to adopt your prospects language, not sales or marketing language. >> Okay. Nice. I get low response rates. What should I do? I think basically like everything we went over today. But yeah, I mean Charlie, if I'm mistaken, anything like a oneliner. >> Um, low open rates are down to your subject line and your hook. Um, low click rates are down to, to be honest, wouldn't have links in it anyway. Low reply rates probably your challenge solution in the email isn't isn't relevant enough. So try and think about if I'm just saying something like, oh, lots of people are struggling with X and that X is too generic, they're probably not going to reply. Interesting. Uh, for a startup with no existing close lost, how can that how can the AI feature focus on new prospects, not known CRM contacts? >> So, Lucia's AI isn't just focusing on closed lost opportunities. It's going to be focusing based on trends within their research. So, hiring trends, funding trends, using their intent to surface people. It's not it's not just taking into consideration that you have a closed loss opportunity. So, it's the most perfect tool for you to start out with if you don't have closed lost opportunities because it's helping you know where to prioritize your time from the get-go rather than just having a sea of leads to go after. >> Yeah, it's good. I'll add to that. It's going to focus is going to focus you on the right way to to start to get the wheel set in motion. Um, you know, and eventually we all get closed lock deals. I hope you won't have any, but you know, bottom line, we will get and then when you do get those closed loss deals, keep on, you know, reaching out to them, following up, and we'll come back to you when the time is right. Uh there a quick uh quick request. A lot of from Charlie, um there's a lot of people asking about the the tiering again. Can you just say that kind of like uh quickly? Uh the tiering and the tier ones? >> Yeah, so tier one is something that's going to help you and it depends if you're an AE or an SDR, right? For me, a tier one is something that's going to help me hit my quarter target. So, something that's high in revenue and a good like good fit on paper, but I'm taking a risk with them because I don't know if they're going to convert. So, for me, that might be like a 200k kind of opportunity that I'm expecting from them. A tier two for me might be a certain size in their sales team and a specific um tech stack involved. Tier three, I'm not even sure if they're a good fit. And then signals where I'm spending most of my time because that's where I'm focusing on those trends with hiring, funding, AI intent. Those are the people most likely to convert, but I'm still not going to neglect my tier ones and tier twos because I still could convert from them. >> I love this next one. Um, I know this is a how to write cold emails, sorry, how to write cold emails and get replies, but what would you recommend? Call first then follow up with an email or email first and then follow up with a call. I love this one. >> I think you just have to test on like data from yourself. Like you can't ask me who sells to salespeople in a specific industry from a specific country into a different country like what works best because it's going to be very different for the persona you sell to the geographies you go into. Exactly. So you need to just test it. You just need to test it. as winter did uh out outbound cold calls cold calls um really cold calls like who are you I don't know this is way back in the day but yeah we were fighting between uh you know against the the sharks but yeah it depends you know in Europe there's certain places that are more sensitive about you know direct cold call and they would rather you send an email first then pick it up and then other you know areas vice versa so yeah it's a good it's a good question that always gets asked when you kind of meet up with sales team members Um can we use Lucious signals having the free version? Yes. Uh you could uh it could be there's some kind of limit there but all the signals basically today everything is pretty much open to to all our users free users as well. So you can test out the signals and the the sequence and yeah there's a lot of things to test out. Super simple. Go take you know 45 seconds of your time sign up and you already see it. And by the way just a side note here I'll talk about it towards the end. We have an academy that I built uh as part of the customer experience team with Marine and uh there's a lot of content there that will just teach you everything about Luca in short, you know, pre-cut um content or like onhand on demand, sorry, uh videos. So, this one is for me. What if we cannot link our CRM to get a recommendations? Lucia AI playlists offer a variety of recommendations based on your ideal customer, your searches, and soon intense signals and more. So the fact that you don't have the comm the the CRM integration doesn't mean that you're stuck and you can't do that. What you could do is you can take uh you can export those companies and contacts from your CRM and kind of run them through Lucia. So like for example the companies you can go and export the list from your CRM go and upload it in mass into the search platform on the uh search search platform in the company area and then you can kind of get companies that are first of all already looking I mean those are the companies that are in your CRM and then Lucia from there will take it to recommendations right so that's going to be the fastest way you could do that you're not stuck if you don't have a CRM integration um let me see Charlie Does Charlie change the number of emails she sends based on the tiers as well as adjusting the time she spends on or the cadence of sending them? >> Sorry, Da Vinci Code over here. Say it again. >> Does Charlie change the number of emails she sent based on tiers as well as adjusting the time she spent on them? So time spent on them, you you know, you spend more time on the higher ones, but you also change one, two, three emails. It depends like if accounts that I'm going after, if I have a lot of signals that week, you know, um I'm actually spending way more time on signals at the moment just because I've had an influx in companies who are hiring and doing things like that. So, if I do have a quieter period, it kind of just depends on the signals that I'm getting from my prospect accounts. I've only got like 150 accounts in my name. So, one week I might have a lot of signals and another week I might not. But overall, just pretend it's in the space of a year. Roughly I'm spending about 45% on signals, 30% on tier ones. So it depends. >> Nice. A lot were asking about training on Lucia. So just want to point out that weekly we have live training sessions um for the end user for the admins. We have Q&A sessions. So feel free on top of the academy. So you have the academy pre-recorded uh short lessons uh but also the webinar live webinars. So feel free just go to our website and go to the resources area. you'll have webinars and the uh Lucia Academy. So feel free to learn more about that over there. Question for Charlie. What do you find your response rate percentage to be when using all these tools compared to the average 4% that I mentioned before? >> My reply rate is probably about 13% at the moment. Signals, it's way higher. My signal reply rates versus my tier ones are like my tier ones are probably like 9% and my signal is probably like 13 to 15 I would say. Um so people in the chat saying I don't have enough time to personalize. I just don't believe that you just need to be reaching out to less people. >> Nice. Okay. I think uh let me see if I missed anything here. One second. Just read it. I got to reread it. I'm sorry. is uh I'm looking both at the chat and the Q&As's. >> So Tall just mentioned uh using signals like technologies prospects use. What is the level of accuracy of those? I mean level of accuracy on intent I think after using it on our end you know over our customers I haven't heard any kind of push backs on it. Lucia uses in front of the firewall, behind of the firewall kind of technology and uses, you know, third party platform um um you know vendors as well. But yeah, I mean it's it's uh it's it's a system that you use to really understand, you know, if it's relevant for them, if it's not relevant for them, are they using or not using by the way we spoke about using technologies, but also there's an option to exclude, right? So are they not using a certain kind of technology? But um but yeah, I mean level of accuracy, I haven't heard any complaints. I think there's a not not a better answer than that. Um okay, cool. So I think we're good to wrap it up everybody. Um and that's it for today. So thanks so much for joining. As always, uh I hope you guys learned new things. Uh please go feel free to test it out, tweak it, turn it into real results. Um you guys are of course going to get the recording after this with the prompts. Please go ahead to the academy page or Luca's website and the resources. They have the academy to learn everything about this. Um and of course you know all the platforms that we mentioned before. Sign up for free to Lucia test it out. You can sign up for our webinar that are uh conducted weekly. Again end user training admin training Q&A sessions. So feel free. And Charlie again thank you so much for joining us. It was delightful. a lot of information. Everyone needs to um you know go take a step back and after we send this recording, take a step back, look at it again, pause it, understand it again. But yeah, 100% important information and in general guys, even small changes to cold emails make a big big impact. So that's basically it. Thanks so much Charlie and everybody on the call also Vonda and >> appreciate it. It was a pleasure. So as always, happy prospecting, enjoy Lucia and crush your targets. We'll see you guys next time.