# Transcript: Florin Tatulea

**Video ID:** j2z-PISTO9c
**Source URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j2z-PISTO9c

---

### Content

What is up, beautiful people? Welcome to the Daily Sales Show hosted by Sell Better. I am super pumped to be back for 2026. How y'all doing today? I am super amped for today's show. We're talking about a topic that I think has changed a lot over the past, more than most sales topics. A lot of the stuff in sales doesn't change. you know, find the need, sell to that, ask questions. The emails I find as a topic does change because of the sheer amount of volume that has been going on over the past five or six years. So, I'm excited to talk about today a prospecting masterclass where we're going to be sharing cold email frameworks that work. And to help us break it down, we've got two of the industry goats on the topic of cold emailing. We've got Brian Lammana over at Gong. How you doing today, Brian? >> I'm doing amazing. Happy New Year. You closed a million million deals yet this year or >> uh nothing yet this year, but it's our end of fiscal year on January 30th or 31st, however many days there are. So, I'm excited to close the year strong. >> Oh, wow. So, you're last your last month of the year is this month instead of last month, but uh sorry to hear that and good luck with the rest of it. We've also got Floren Tatilia who's one of the uh the folks probably been talking about cold email for the longest and he's heading up sales development over at common room which is a uh pretty cool tool doing a lot of things in this space. Floren, how are you today? How's your how's your new year been off as a sales development? You guys booking loads of meetings yet or are you uh starting from scratch again? >> Yeah, it's uh happy new year everybody. Super exciting time for us. We're also on fiscal year end at the end of January. So, you know, going hard for for Q4 after a bit of a holiday break, but yeah, exciting times ahead. >> Beautiful. And I know we've got some awesome content here today just based off what you've seen working recently as well. Before we jump into that content, start sharing some of those frameworks, picking your brains, asking all the questions we want to ask. We always like to do some housekeeping here. Yes, this show is recorded. Yes, we do a bunch of these every single week. Yes, you can always go back and watch any of the shows we recorded by scanning that QR code on the screen or going to sell better.xyz XYZ to see our upcoming and past shows. I also want to say we do a lot of these shows. We wouldn't be able to do them without sponsors, partners like the team over at Gong and HubSpot are partners for today's show. Today though, what we're going to be talking about basically what's going on in cold email, what people are seeing working, sharing some actual frameworks that you can screenshot, take, copy, adapt, make your own. Um, and some things that you might actually be doing that could be hurting you that worked in the past but don't work anymore. These are the two best people to be speaking about it. And I guess maybe to just open us up like Brian, I'm gonna ask you first. What are you finding is the big mistake that you've been telling people not to do for some time that people are still making when it comes to cold emailing? >> I'll say I think things have come full circle a little bit in the last couple years. AI and chat GPT was what late 2022 if my memory serves me right. And that really took off. And I think a lot of A's and STRs found that they could scale out their messaging a lot faster. Uh whether it was in a one-off way or kind of like mass blasting folks. And at least what we've seen at Gong over the past year with not just ourselves, but our customers as well is like using a purely AI approach has not been as successful. I think buyers and prospects inboxes are more flooded than ever. And for those emails that are very clearly not written by a human and are written only bit by AI and they're fully automated sequences, they're seeing lower open rates, lower reply rates, lower meeting booked rates. So, it's funny how this works in prospecting. Uh, but things do come full circle a bit. And I think we're at the point now that when a prospector or buyer opens an email, the first thing they're actually doing is they're scanning through that email and they're deciding whether it's worth it to read or not. they're scanning through it to be like, "Hey, is this complete AI slop? Is this automated? Is this bullshit? If so, delete or is this like actually important and I should start at the top again and like read through it from start to finish." So, I think it's really really important that your email calls to attention that you actually wrote it if that is the case. >> Absolutely love that and I think it's a great call out that AI automation sometimes those solutions become the exact problem that we run into eventually and I think everyone's brain's on that. Like even if it's a good email, the timing is great. Someone can tell us rap by it does leave a sour taste and I think it just increased the volume and makes it even harder. But I would also argue for those of us who know what we're doing and we know what that looks like, we know how to avoid that. It can make the top 1% the folks who have the skills makes your life you know what to do. It gives you the road map, right? Floren, I know you're pretty involved in the technology space. You've seen this change over the past few years as well. What's your view on like automating prospecting uh manually versus going too heavy? Where where's the middle ground for you? >> I agree heavily with Brian. So I think I I joke about this with my teams in the past, but you're almost now at this point in going into 26 trying to convince uh people that uh you are not AI in your your copy. So it's like doing the things that are completely unscalable at times to prove that you're human. And I think we can go into different examples, but like humor and uh you know current events and just like dropping something like very specific. I I'm more on the side of not automating things fully. Obviously having worked at Common Room like we've tested everything from like workflows and AI messaging. We actually even bought an AI SDR platform at one point just to see if like it worked. Uh it did not work at all. Mhm. >> I think it actually ended up booking almost like no uh no meetings. What has been working for us is using AI to consolidate as much like very relevant information as possible and provide that as a summary to a rep or at least go from zero to one with the initial copy but allowing the rep to add uh you know the quote unquote uh human touch or more specifically like what actually is the human touch. I think right now and I have some examples of this but the thing that AI still can't do very well today is it's not very good at uh taking some kind of information and extrapolating or tying the context of that information to the value prop or the problem that uh you're trying to solve for a company. It's like there's like a missing link >> that I think >> it's like it's the logic almost that comes from experience being able to say okay I saw this and through deductive reasoning and experience I can reasonably guess this might be relevant to you that part there is that what you're kind of going for that that's exactly right >> yeah it's weird because I've actually found church using it as a tool if you give it that context it can help you connect some of those dots as well like look for new things to think but you're All right. Without that context, I do find that it struggles and most these platforms don't don't don't set you up for the context. And by the way, you're the I think 12th person I've heard who said they tried an AI SDR and it's not been successful. So, if we know that's not the solution or at least based on my small sample of 12, um then I'm excited to talk about what you guys might think is the solution, what is actually working. >> I mean, I can quickly go first, but the question for me has been like why doesn't an AI SDR work? So if you think about fundamentally how an AI SDR works today at least in with the current platforms and technology what it's doing is it's usually using some kind of web scrapers and it's finding you know it's going on your LinkedIn profile maybe it's going through some like earning reports uh the what crawling a website but if you think about it a lot of very relevant initiatives that a company's undergoing are not things that are online So I think an AI SDR can work but you you need to somehow hook it up to find uh it's funny what and I have a slide for this too but what Kyle Coleman calls secret data. So it's like >> and this is why and I think Brian mentioned this too like I think he's flown like 50 times in the last years to various customers like when you're in person with people you learn about the internal politics initiatives things that are on the SKO slide OKRs. Uh these are not things that you find anywhere online or that a company is going to put online but that's the information that you need to tie together with the context and value prop that you have to actually break through the noise. >> Yeah. I'm I'm with you there. It's a good great point. Um and I think when we see some examples and frameworks that'll be even clearer of how you actually end connecting those two things. I want to start off with something that's a bit of a divisive topic. Opens. >> Maybe the only two sentences I'll say on open rates. I think again context matters. If you're a big company like Gong or Salesforce, you're probably less susceptible to uh inbox issues because you've already built a good domain reputation. So the problem that Gong has is very different than a problem a small startup has that's never sent to emails or has no infrastructure. >> Okay, beautiful. Brian, I want to ask you when you think about getting open, so we got about 60% of the people in the room are tracking opens. Uh 38% aren't. The two main things we're thinking about generally with uh open rate, whether you're tracking or not, the subject line, the preview text. What considerations do you have? What's your go-to formula for coming up with subject lines that you think will get people to open the email? >> For subject lines, I I first think of them as like the gatekeeper of a cold call. My only goal with a subject line is to get the open. >> That that's the only goal. So simplify it. I want the subject line to be something compelling enough for them to open up the email. >> So how do we do that? Uh to me, it's nothing that's scalable. It's not like here's my go-to subject line that works and gets a 90% open rate. It's trying to look for what Floren just referenced, uh, like really specific and unique verbiage to them, their company, their business, maybe their LinkedIn profile that's not as obvious. Um, so if I was prospecting Gong right now, we put out a recent article that we're launching a new product in 2026 called Orchestrate. So a good subject line could be orchestrate launch. Two words, keep it both lowercase. That means a lot to us internally and that would very unlikely be uh you know somebody completely cold prospecting. Now you need to make sure that that subject line has something to do with your email. Of course uh we'll get into some of the frameworks behind it but that's the type of example that I try to insert. So it's it's nothing that's scalable. >> Floren rules you follow for subject lines? It's very much making it sound internal. So, I think a lot of people overthink subject lines heavily. If you can have some kind of like internal initiative uh that you can call out like Brian mentioned or one thing I love to do that works very well is depending on who you're sending the email to if it's relevant try to get like some names of direct reports in a subject line. So, let's say I'm selling a solution that helps with like SDR RAM times. >> Yeah. If I'm selling to an SDR leader, I'm probably going to be like, "Go and find two SDRs, Bob and Sally." And then I'll be like, "Ram time for Bob and Sally." That sounds like it could be internal. They know the names likely makes it easy to get the open. >> I think that the theme there is that try and tie something in that's either unique to them or their company if you can. I like your point there about internal feeling, right? I think the thing we do we with subjects people are trying to think of the thing that gets opened. I'm thinking more like what's the thing that doesn't get this email deleted and written off before they've even opened it. I think that's the better frame to look at it for. So instead of trying really really hard to make this thing stand out, it's almost like how can I just make this look like an email that they almost have to open to know what it's all about, but there's enough there that doesn't say scream sales um and is, you know, relevant. So like a a good subject line I think uh that worked very well for a health tech company I recently worked with was like portfolio prioritization u because they were doing a bit of AI scraping on some uh Q10s which is like their financial reports in that industry and they were seeing that a lot of companies were scaling back on the number of programs and they were finding that was causing the problem that they helped solve it. Right? So almost as portfolio prioritization you just can't tell what that is but it is relevant to what the email is actually about and it's true to that company. Let me actually here let me drop an example. >> Okay, >> because this is going to tie into like a few themes that uh we've been talking about. So Brian's mentioned this, I've mentioned this uh Kyle Coleman had a good post where he was talking about like the main value for an SDR right now is like gathering that secret information to some degree. So it's information you can't really find online. And what you're trying to do essentially is figure out what their priorities are. Whether that's an SKO, like a sales kickoff if you're selling to like GTM teams, uh OKRs, so like uh I'm blanking. What's OKRs again? It's uh it's like their goals like key results, >> uh earning reports, stuff like that, right? So a classic example, one of the biggest deals like we actually closed uh at Common Room ended up being sourced by me. >> What I literally did, I went to a conference, I was talking to BDR leader. Uh in this case, I actually literally got a screenshot of their SKO agenda. >> And then you can see here there's a few uh bullet points that were bolded, right? So like one thing specifically that stood out to me was RAM time being too long. Uh so here's the email I wrote, right? So artist to scientist with a theme. That's literally the subject line. How much more internal can you get than that for the CRO that built that slide? you know, spoke to that BDR leader and then I tried to map common room specifically to uh ramp time. Obviously, this got open, got reply, ended up being big deal. So, the one nuance I want to say here is this is where AI is not very good at like doing this by itself. Being able to extrapolate ramp time being too long and tying it to the value of common room, I think that's like the the secret sauce where humans are still very valuable today. >> I like that because you know what you're looking for and you know why that's relevant. I think this is also why a lot of AI like we'll build the lead list for you the last mile if the sales rep should do that that fills when the sales rep doesn't know what the signal or trigger means in the context of the problem they can infer how actually connects to the product I think that's where people need to spend more time thinking about and and just like going through exercises as well to try and be able to connect those things better let's go on to someone asked in the chat what's a good open rate I personally feel like open rate is a bit of a red red herring these because there's a lot of variables going on there where even if a high open rate doesn't necessarily mean it gets it has a high open rate. It might just mean that it didn't get delivered to anyone because there's all these open things going on in Gmail and Outlook these days. A couple of years ago I might have told you 70 upwards. But today I would say if you're getting 90% open rate, you're probably actually getting not getting 90% open rate. You're probably just getting loads of flag spams spam flags essentially. That's my short answer to that. Brian, do you have any thoughts on that piece or did you just not go near that? And that's okay if you don't by the way. I I don't track it too closely. Like I I do try to look at analytics every month or quarter, but it's not like I'm looking by email um for those results. And it's for those reasons you mentioned is like there's a lot of false positives and there's a lot of situations where it wasn't open and then you get a reply. So uh it's it's not perfect anymore due to Gmail and Outlook. >> Let's go into some each of your frameworks and I know you've each got some examples that you can share as well. So takeways for subject lines folks, keep them short, keep them basic, keep them kind of internal looking. If you can tie in something very that personal company into that subject that actually carries through to the topic of the email. If you know the name of initiative of a name of someone their team, their CEO is posting something on LinkedIn. Try and find something that tells you that you can do that so you can bit banking on familiarity essentially. Brian, I'm going to go to you first. You've been teaching the ops framework for a fair bit of time. you recently added an S. So, can you quickly run us through what your framework is, what you teach when it comes to cold email? >> It's like adding another C in medpek. It's just very exciting things, right? Um, for uh for quick context, everyone, so I I was in STR uh from 2018 to 2019. Uh I got promoted to AE almost by strictly calling. I'd say like 95% plus of my opportunities were via call. And I didn't get good at emailing until the very very end of it. My problem was that every time I wanted to write an email, it took me like 20, 25, 30 minutes to put together a really strong email. If you extrapolate that over an hour, that might be two emails. If you have a 50% open rate, one of those two might not even get opened and then the odds the other one gets responded to is pretty poor. So, uh, short end of it is like you need to be more efficient when writing emails and taking 20 to 25 minutes, even if it's the world's most perfect email. There was a rep on my team, his name was John Bristo, who was an AE at the time, the absolute best rep at Bright Edge. Wrote the most killer emails. Always did them in like five, six, seven minutes. Just one of those super sharp guys. He had no process, no framework. But I started studying his emails and he had the same flow to them all. He just didn't really realize that there was a specific like method to the madness. And something I realized was all of his emails started with like a very sharp hook. They all describe the problem in a really succinct way and we're able to tie it back to the solution as well. He had a really short kind of like simplified call to action and then he threw a PS in the end as well just to call out that it was really like personalized and specific to that person they were reaching out to. So, I I credit a lot of this to John who went on to actually head up uh Palunteer's commercial segment over the last couple years and is still a killer rep. Um, but I built out this framework more just so that I could stop thinking when I was going to write an email about like the process and like where to start and instead I could just fill in the blanks with, hey, I know I want to start with an observation. I know what I want the second line to be and I could fill it in with the gold instead. Um, so this allowed me to really put together more like relevant personalized emails in like five to seven minutes. And to Florence's point earlier, it doesn't need to be like the world's most perfect like best email of all time. It's just important that it's not AI. You're able to actually tie back some problem they're facing to how your solution helps and uh able to get a simplified message across. >> Love that. So we got observation problem PS simple CTA in practice. We had this example obviously fill in the blanks but it could be like hi if I'm selling to if I'm selling gong can maybe give me an example where what you might fill in here. What observations you actually be looking for? >> Yeah I'll wing it. Our CRO's name is Shane Evans. So I might say hi Shane Evans or probably just Shane. I saw that Gong just announced that you're launching orchestrate in Q2. CRO's share that when they launch new products, go to market teams have uh difficulties positioning it, understanding the problems associated with it, so on and so forth. CRO's leverage gong to beat up time to productivity and ensure their biggest bets like new products pay off. We helped deal do this with their most recent product launch and they saw 2x revenue in year one. Have you ever come across gong before? Mark, cheers, Brian. And then throwing in a P specific like Shane's profile. So I might say like saw you were at Qualrix prior to Gong. I had some close friends over there. Did you ever know Aron? >> That was just Adlib. Look at that. I guess we would all probably be a little bit better selling to our CEOs than we would be. But like Figma, for example, launched uh new personas when they IPOed, right? You could say something like saw. You're selling these new personas. A lot of folks find it there's a lag between when they start selling to them and the reps get adept at selling. They're not sure how the the the new product features are landing with these new personas. This other company saw that and was able to get ahead of us some changes and adapt the sales team skills to give them training in the place they need it. Right? Like figuring out if you see something what could that mean and then leading with that problem. Very very very nicely put. >> Floren, >> I want you to share your framework. It's probably not too different if I had to guess. >> Yeah. Oh, you might say >> look like very similar. I think uh we all kind of like a lot of people in the industry kind of share similar frameworks. Let me share this with you quick and then I'm going to like double down on the importance of going deeper a bit in emails and adding to Brian's framework. Pretty similar four sentences observation or signal. Again, like common room is a signal based platform. So, we're looking for a specific like you want to call it an observation, a trigger, a signal, something that it gives you a reason to reach out. Then what you want to do, and this is the the sentence that most people mess up. I've like reviewed a ton of emails. It's not just like being able to state the problem, but tying the context of the problem to your solution in that third sentence. Uh, similar to Brian, the the PS for me is always about like if there's something more personal that makes you like human or you want to make a joke or you've noticed something that doesn't really fit into the narrative of like a an email based off of the relevance to the business, that's where I usually use the PS to to stick out a bit. >> Yeah. >> And I know there's some different opinions on that. >> I I I totally agree. I think the PS a lot of people when they hear personalization a few years ago that meant like so you like to ski one slippery slope is when when reps don't know how to write emails right you know like that's not personalization that's that that is personalization it's not relevant at all right so it's like not business focused it's just kind of cutesy and I think people are less susceptible to that because there's so much noise and that's a lot where AI tends to take it as well it's like oh we found out they ski let's use that that's not relevant really it's more like business objective ive outcome. I do find the more specific you are with what you've seen up front, the better. But you don't want to be too robotic as well because people are clocking on the AI can just go and scrape all that crap. You have to almost drop it in like a nonchalant, hey spot in your most recent report that this or your CEO said this, not quote them directly or make it sound robotic. >> Correct. And I think one thing that we've lost a bit of sight of, I think there's a lot of like LinkedIn people, you know, it's like, oh, I'm going to like build this huge clay table and we're going to automate like a million emails. >> I think we we always hear or like the end results like, oh, I booked a thousand meetings. But >> we have to remember like the main goal of prospecting is ultimately to source opportunities that actually close. So the fact that you know you can catch someone's attention oh they like golf or they like skiing but like there has to be a very relevant reason that the SDR and obviously the account executive throughout the sales cycle are like mapping the solution to and if you can do that upfront like you're going to get much better opportunities your conversion rates to qualified opportunity are going to be better which I think most SDRs are likely comped on anyways and I think the other thing here too to kind of like double down uh what I was saying the importance of going deeper and AI can actually help you quite a lot here but let's use this example let's say you know I feel like everybody these days or or most companies that are uh you know like series A+ have some kind of like intent or like website deanmization tool let's say you get a web visit just look at the difference here between these two things right so there's a lot of reps do example number one it's like hey notice you were on our pricing page Looks like you just raised a series B. Congrats. Seems like this might be interesting. Let me know if I can help. All it takes to go a little bit deeper. And again, you can do this with some AI prompts. And I even have an example on my next slide, >> but just like if there's a funding announcement and you see someone's on your website, go and read the announcement. It's always there. They're going to talk about something very specifically that they're going to do with that money. And then can you provide some kind of value upfront to that company so that it's a much lighter touch and you're not necessarily trying to go hardcore for the meeting right away. But I can tell you from over a decade of experience that email number two at scale is going to get you a lot more replies and meetings. >> I totally agree. I also think sometimes people especially if they're not in the revenue space get creeped out by intent triggers like intent information. when you have that information, don't lead with it. Someone's like, find one other thing that you can tell your business before you go ahead. >> You got any other examples in this beautiful deck you got here? >> So, maybe this is the last one I'll do. If you're selling the enterprise, for example, like again, you don't have to go and do this research by yourself. When I was in SDR, like trying to break in enterprise accounts, I would literally do keyword searches F in these earning reports. There's now prompts. Here's actually a prompt that I built in uh Perplexity. So, I just type in the name, the ticker symbol. Uh there's a very specific area of a 10K report that's very valuable. It's called management discussion and analysis. So it's going to break down a bunch of information for me and then I try to map out exactly uh you know h how how are their problems that they're talking about related to what we sell. So sometimes it's very specific information. I did this for elastic. So >> the CRO is talking about elongated sales cycles. uh they're going like for uh they're going to invest heavily in international expansion. So there's a lot of stuff here that I can now in an email actually link very specifically to what the CRO was actually talking about in last earnings call. So I don't know subject line could literally just be like I don't know elongated sales cycles or sales cycle time at elastic and then if I have a way to map that into an email or on a call I'm golden. I know that the CRO actually cares about this. So you don't need to spend hours researching this. This is output that you can quickly do in an LL. >> This is where I think AI has the most ability to help us not write me an email. It's like help me see the information quicker. Brian, are you are you doing anything with AI in that in that sense as well? >> 100%. And I I found to that point AI to be most valuable for more of like the offline stuff versus like the customerf facing, you know, what they're going to end up seeing. >> Uh shameless plug for Gong, but if you use another conversation intelligence tool or you manually record, that's fine as well. Or even just have good notes in Salesforce. But like for us, like a lot of the top accounts were working and targeting like they've been reached out to before in some way, shape, or form. Even if it was two years ago and Florence saw our platform, if we can re um if we can reference like relevant information from that conversation two years ago, AI is tremendous for that. Hey, here are the three areas we found mutual value. Understand we didn't move forward. Just a great way to turn like a cold email into like almost like a warm email and like a followup from it instead. Um, so one way is what Floren just showed from like a research perspective, but two, I would I would scrape heavily like internal conversations to Floren's point earlier. That's where a lot of the gold is that might not be on a website. They might have shared a really specific initiative or specific naming for something that's like unique to them. Uh, you can find a lot of great information in that as well. >> Beautifully said. So in both cases there, what I saw was you're you're calling out what's caused you to basically reach out to them. Being specific in that, not generic, not leading to something creepy or too personal. Then link and this is the part where I think most people struggle being able to link that to a problem priority outcome that your product can help deliver, product or service can help deliver. Offering something of value to them and then asking if this sounds interesting. I didn't see either of you asking for booking meetings in those either. Any take on that? like the hard CTA. I think that seems to be something that's just not I when I see that that's normally the first thing I'm like, whoa, why? >> I think prospects and buyers know that like a demo or a meeting is an option. Uh so I think you can surprise them uh with a softer CTA or as Floren offered like even like an offer if you can think of something as a creative value ad for them. And it just depends again like you know there's 266 sellers on this conversation today. If you have, let's exaggerate, if you have a million accounts, uh, versus if you have 30 accounts like myself in Enterprise, you're going to have to take a vastly different approach to how you're going about this. So, with me having 30 accounts, like I'm trying to find something super super creative for each. I might spend time talking to an AE first. I might uh go to their careers page and uh figure out they're hiring for an AE and try to like get them a referral first and like do something like very valuable for them that's like totally above and beyond. But if you have a million accounts and you're, you know, required to source 40 meetings a month, like you're going to have to do things a little bit more at scale and at aggregate. So, uh just don't lose sight of like your situation as well into this. If you have 30 accounts, like you have to go super deep because like you don't have the opportunity to burn >> uh an account. That's like a huge opportunity for you, right? One thing that we used to do with like Fortune 500 companies, like we literally like actually get donut boxes and like go and not like literally go to their office and uh just drop something off and leave a note. >> Start with something about them, a hook, a thing that you noticed about their business specifically. Priority. You can use AI to help you get the information faster. Try and be specific but not robotic. Um, with subjects, try and make sure that they reference whatever you might have seen in a short internal weight sounding way that's not overly markety or trying to sell or I find verbs are a big selling thing like, oh, hidden cost instead of just costs. Costs will probably outperform hidden costs. That's what I'm saying. It's like a little bit less tryhard. Use what you found to tie into the problem or value or outcome that your product delivers and to drop that in a nonchalant way. And if you have it available, use relevant social proof um to add to the credibility. And then ask if they sound interested, if they'd like to see a resource, an offer of some kind to buy in. And if you want to elevate the email a little bit, Brian's formula shared, include a PS that maybe calls out something more personal to them or some kind of shared history or whatever it may be. Once we send that first email, let's be real, we're probably not going to get a response most of the time. Follow-up time. Brian, how do you go about approaching with your follow-ups? Because I'm assuming you don't just send one email and then walk away, especially if you have 30 accounts. I do follow up, believe it or not. So, here's the beauty in like putting together a really strong first touch like what what Floren shared or or some of my frameworks is you don't need to reinvent the wheel for your second touch and your third touch and your fourth touch. My goal is to create one really uh strong compelling message and have that almost sit at like the center of your flywheel and then you can reference that back in all your different touches. So, as an example, if I now call Will, guess what my script for that call could be after I use my opener, I could read that email out loud to him and put some call flavor on it. If I add him on LinkedIn and Will adds me back or I just shoot him an email, I can copy and paste that email, shorten it up maybe a little bit, fire it off. If I leave a voicemail, I can, you know, share a version of that as well. So, I think a really important thing to remember is it might feel redundant for us, the seller, saying it over and over. Odds are they haven't seen it, they haven't heard it yet. Even if they did hear it once a week ago, they probably don't remember it. So, if you have that one really strong touch, continue to repurpose it across all those different mediums because you just don't know. Um, I never pick up my, you know, cell phone to random numbers, but I actually do check my email and I I respond. Other people might be opposite. So, I try all those mediums with kind of one consistent message. >> Let me love that flywheel. That word's come back in. I swear 2020 is the Europe. >> Sorry, >> Floren. Yeah, I I fully agree with uh Brian. So, usually like when we're developing sequences, there's two what I call anchor emails, which are like maybe it's two different use cases or problems that we solve for, and then like the other emails are just >> to some degree bumping those up. Uh or you can do something like this is one of my best emails of all time. Uh and it was scalable. This was when there was like the Suez Canal issue canal uh issue back in I think it was in 21 maybe. uh we were selling like our uh request for proposal response software, but there's nothing uh this is fully scalable. There's nothing custom here. This was literally just a bump email to the initial email that was customized. >> Yeah. >> But uh it's a relevant meme. It uh highlights the problem pretty well or paints it well with one picture. We had like a five six% reply rate on like the bump email with this. >> I love this point. I think the opportunity of full-op is to say what you almost said in the first one in a different way. And the great way to images, videos, you know, Floren, you came on the show before and I think you shared that was when you shared the example of like you had that that Kevin dropping the um the chili one as well as that you've been using com, but you also had like okay well we can also give them a visual of what this actually looks like and or like an example or like maybe in the first email we say would you like to see some sample data that people are finding helpful from this medical device measuring tool and in this followup we actually send that data and say take a look you know like That's where we can get creative. Instead of just saying bumping following up, hey, checking in, did you read that last thing? Just try and say the same thing in new different ways and infer different things. Um, I think that's the way to go about it. First to the individual, especially for enterprise opportunities. Does this mean that they're not putting these key accounts into sequences? And if so, how are they keep up tracking follow-ups? Or are they putting the key contact into a personalized sequence with lots of manual steps down to the individual? >> I'll give my quick take and then Brian, you can give yours as well. like my enterprise uh SDRs don't actually have like they put people into sequences, but the steps are pretty custom. So, they're they're using it more as like a follow-up or like a task management type of situation where again, if you have 30 accounts, I mean, I'll let Brian speak to to his situation, but like you do want to you have the time and you don't have enough accounts to not go super deep. Yeah, similar approach like I I leverage flows within Gong Engage to stay organized. That's our nomenclature for sequences. Uh but I also use uh just like maybe I'm old school like the Google calendar tasks at the top uh for like very very personalized ones. So say I sent over like a gift to Will. He's the CRO at my you know top top account. I'm going to manage that with just those like Google calendar tasks. Um, reason being like I might have a totally unique structure for will that I'm going to game plan versus, you know, anything I have pre-built in terms of a sequence. Um, I don't think it really matters. I think you can use pencil and paper. You can use stickies on a laptop. You could use Google tasks. You could figure out a way to uh create manual steps in a sequencing platform. Like whatever makes it easiest for you and and reduces uh reduces the friction. But um I will personalize down to the level of that individual. Should I find something that's really good for that person? Um give an example, but a CRO I was reaching out to, they met their CEO playing pingpong and I learned that through a conversation with an individual contributor. So my first email, my first touch was a lot more like personalized than like relevant just cuz I felt like I had something really good. So, I sent him over a gift of ping pong balls with their company logo on it and I did put an email together with a lot of puns like, you know, putting my spin on it and things like that of like comparing Gong to pingpong. Uh, but I think it worked because I had that individual contributor conversation. I was still able to reference a couple priorities and I also stood out with, you know, getting a gift to his doorstep. So, I think it just depends on like how deep you can go on some of those accounts. In my world, I go very deep because I need to. Uh but when I was in small business, I I did that uh much more sparingly. >> How much you falling up when you are doing sequences? Like what's your I quit point or I quit for now point? >> 10 to 14 times total. Um, and probably about six emails, about four or five calls, sometimes double taps, and then trying them on LinkedIn as well, and leaving a voicemail like almost every time I'm calling. >> Lauren, >> I think I would agree. We usually have like 12 steps, six roughly six emails, two anchors, couple four bumps for or two for each anchor email, uh, calling five or six times, couple LinkedIn touches, and again, like you're kind of cycling this through. If you think, let's use like Brian's example, you have 30 accounts, right? So, realistically, you're probably touching people at that account throughout the whole year, but you're not going to touch the same person like every quarter necessarily. You probably hit them like 12, 14 times, and then you you probably start hitting them up again like three months or whatever. But in enterprise, you're always hitting a given account, just saying different people. >> Love that. To give you a real example, I recently did this for a med device company, which I probably the example I used the next week and still had to start until I started working for another company. Guy, Philip Shreenburgger, he's like the senior director of technical operations at a therapeutics company. The the anchor of this entire sequence is the same thing. So, in their Q10, it said they're cutting back several different programs and consolidating all their focus onto two that they basically put all the big bets on. So the first email is about the fact that with fewer projects, you need to be more confident in the decisions. This medical device tends to give them faster and better and more in-depth results. They don't push drugs through to the next phase of development or they're not waiting on results to do that. Um, and then the next thing is like basically like I I attached an example output which I referenced in the first email, but then like the second email is still about the fact they've got less programs, but so this one focuses more on like cost cutting measures, right? And the bump on that is like, "All right, sneeze." Like, "Does this even are you the right person, right?" Like, or would I be better off chatting over to Eric Sherman, who's one of the like senior scientists at the company? Like, that's four emails across what 12 days. So, you're not going super in-depth. That doesn't mean I'm never ever going to reach out to Philip ever again, but I've left that door open essentially. And that first email follows similar kind of logic to what you guys had. You know, I saw this. Here's a problem. Here's how we help. Sound sound worth a chat. And there's a PS because he uh he had a photo of him skiing with his family on his LinkedIn. So I used that or no it was in his interests on LinkedIn which cuz scient believe it or not technical ops people aren't influencers most of the time. So there's less less photos on there. What if they want to learn more from you Floren? What's the best place to hit you? >> Uh you can follow me on LinkedIn. I also have a newsletter where I go deeper weekly called prospecting from the trenches. >> I will say and and likewise for Brian. Uh, same place. LinkedIn. >> LinkedIn is great. >> These two guys have some of the best sales and newsletters out there. So, I highly recommend clicking that going over their LinkedIn and checking out their newsletter, which I imagine is probably pinned at the top of their profile because I look forward to seeing Florence every week. Brian, I haven't checked out yours in a while. You you you've been slacking me, mate. >> I It's going out every uh every Sunday, maybe. >> I must have blocked you. I'll spam. Maybe my subject line. >> All right, guys. This has been awesome. Thank you so much. Thank you everyone for coming to one of the first shows of the year. Hope it's been helpful. Keep it real. Peace, love, and sound. >> Good luck in 26. >> Let's go.